# 1.1 Language Processors

## Exercise 1.1.1
What is the difference between a compiler and an interpreter?

**Compiler** translates *source language* into *target language* that can later be
executed on *target* platform.

**Interpreter** executes *target language* operation by operation.

## Exercise 1.1.2
What are the advantages of

a) a compiler over an interpreter,

Target program produced by a compiler is usually faster than similar program
translated by an interpreter.

b) an interpreter over a compiler?

An interpreters could be better at error reporting as it executes the source
program statement by statement.

## Exercise 1.1.3
What advantages are there to a language processing system in which the compiler
produces assembly language rather than machine language?

Assembly language is easier to produce and easier to debug compared to machine
code. Translation from assembly language to machine code is dedicated to a
separate specialized tool - assembler.

## Exercise 1.1.4
A compiler that translates a high-level language into another high-level
language is called a *source-to-source* translator. What advantages are there
to using C as a target language for a compiler?

C code is easier to debug than assembly. C code can be target platform
independent. Generation of target specific code as well as optimizations can
be delegated to a C compiler.

## Exercise 1.1.5
Describe some of the tasks that an assembler needs to perform.

* Translate instruction mnemonics to binary code,
* resolve symbolic links (jump target, memory location, etc),
* calculate constant expression.
* macro substitution.
